# Refill Management

## rechargeAccount

| Service Characteristics | Values |
| :--- | :--- |
| **Service Name** | Refill Management |
| **Operation Name** | rechargeAccount |
| **Provider** | <ul style="list-style-type: disc;"><li>OCS</li><ul style="list-style-type: circle;padding-left: 15px;"><li>SAP CC (via. Mediation Zone)</li><li>JRCS (via. Mediation Zone)</li></ul><li>SAP HANA (Routing DB) via. Routing Data Inquiry:getRoutingDetails</li><li>Campaign Fulfillment Platform</li><li>Voucher Management System</li><li>DigitalApi Platform</li><ul style="list-style-type: circle;padding-left: 15px;"><li>Subscription Engine via. Digital Service Order Life Cycle Management</li><li>Customer Self Management</li></ul></ul> |
| **Consumer** | <ul style="list-style-type: disc;"><li>Estel</li><li>DigitalApi Platform</li><ul style="list-style-type: circle;padding-left: 15px;"><li>Product Order Life Cycle Management:submitProductOrder</li><li>Enterprise Plan Subscription Management:configurePlanOffering</li></ul><li>Campaign Fulfillment Platform</li><li>Orchestration Engine (OE)</li><ul style="list-style-type: circle;padding-left: 15px;"><li>Service Provisioning Activation</li><li>Process Join JioOne</li><li>Process Exit JioOne</li></ul><li>Orchestration Engine (OE) – Enterprise</li><ul style="list-style-type: circle;padding-left: 15px;"><li>Enterprise Service Provisoning Activation</li></ul></ul> |
| **Data Format** | Reliance SID |
| **Protocol / Transport** | <ul style="list-style-type: disc;"><li>SOAP/HTTP</li><ul style="list-style-type: circle;padding-left: 15px;"><li>Estel</li></ul><li>JSON/HTTP</li><ul style="list-style-type: circle;padding-left: 15px;"><li>Orchestration Engine (OE)</li><ul style="list-style-type: square;padding-left: 15px;"><li>Process Join JioOne</li><li>Process Exit JioOne</li></ul></ul></ul> |
| **Mediation Pattern** | Service Selector / Service Translator |
| **Interaction Type** | Synchronous request response |

### Interaction Diagram

``` mermaid
sequenceDiagram
  autonumber
  participant ESTEL as Estel (MerchantService)
  participant DAPI_RM as DigitalApi (Refill Management)
  participant VMS as VMS (Voucher Management Service)
  participant OCS as MZ (ChargeableItemCharging)
  participant MSG_SDSO as Messaging(SUBMITDIGITALERVICEORDER.IN.Queue)
  participant MSG_PSF as Messaging (PROCESSSERVICEFEATURE.IN.Queue)
  participant MSG_CFP as Messaging(CFP.RECHARGEACCOUNT.IN.Queue
  
  ESTEL->>+DAPI_RM: rechargeAccount
    
  alt /lineItem/planOfferingType IN ['33']
    DAPI_RM->>+VMS: createVoucherNo
    VMS-->>-DAPI_RM: createVoucherNo
	opt /error-code IN [Configurable list of errorCode for Voucher]
	  DAPI_RM->>DAPI_RM: continueOn
	end
  else Otherwise
    Note over DAPI_RM: Routing – Outbound – Service Provider with distributed deployment
    DAPI_RM->>+OCS: chargeableItemCharge
    OCS-->>-DAPI_RM: chargeableItemCharge

    opt chargeableItemChargeResponse/status="return" and <br/>((Plan Offering Type = 7:Connectivity + Content/OTT Recharge or Plan Offering Type = 18: Connectivity+Content/OTT AddOn) or<br/> (Action = 3: Remove and (Plan Offering Type = 7:Connectivity + Content/OTT Recharge or Plan Offering Type = 8: CONNECTIVITY + CONTENT/OTT STARTUP)) or<br/> (Action = 08: BPC_BCC_DAY and (Plan Offering Type = 17: CONNECTIVITY + CONTENT/OTT POSTPAID)))
      DAPI_RM->>MSG_SDSO: PUT
      Note over MSG_SDSO: Digital Service Order Life Cycle Management - submitDigitalServiceOrder
    end
  
    opt chargeableItemChargeResponse/status="return" and <br/> (/notification[id = 'refillfeature']/field[name = 'computed.FeatureCode' and (stringValue = 'F30003' or stringValue = 'F50001')] exists) and<br/> (Plan Offering Type = 1: Connectivity Recharge or <br/>Plan Offering Type = 7: Connectivity + Content/OTT Recharge or <br/>Plan Offering Type = 16: Connectivity AddOn or<br/>Plan Offering Type = 18: Connectivity+Content/OTT AddOn)
      DAPI_RM->>MSG_PSF: PUT
      Note over MSG_PSF: Process Service Feature
    end
  
    opt chargeableItemChargeResponse/status="return"
      DAPI_RM->>MSG_CFP: PUT
    end
  end
  DAPI_RM-->>-ESTEL: rechargeAccount
```

Following is a textual walk-through of the Refill Management – rechargeAccount operation.

1.  Service Consumer invokes rechargeAccount operation of Refill Management service for recharge (top-up, recharge) of pre-paid balances or provision the postpaid plan for an account.  
    **Note:** Estel when receives the request from the Balance Replenishment component invokes the rechargeAccount operation of the Refill Management service within the same session of the request.

2.  If Plan Offering Type IN [33: COMPOSITE VOUCHER] (configurable list) (from request; /lineItem/planOfferingType IN ['33'])
    1.  Refill Management component invokes createVoucherNo API (Protocol / Transport = JSON/HTTP) of Voucher Management System to create a Multi-Purpose Voucher.
    2.  If any response is received
        1.  If /errorCode = 00  
            **Note:** Request is processed successfully
            -  continue processing
        2.  Else If /errorCode IN [configurable list of errorCode of createVoucher to ignore]  
            **Note:** indicates Business Exception  
            **Note:** configurable list of errorCode of createVoucher to ignore = [04: Duplicate Transaction No]
            -  ContinueOn i.e. Error to be suppressed, no need to log and continue processing
        3.  Else  
            **Note:** indicates Business Exception
            -  Return error based on mapping of errorCode received from Voucher Management System. E.g. errorCode = 06 from Voucher Management System is mapped to 7320: The number of owned vouchers exceeds the configured threshold
            -  If error is NOT mapped
                -  Return error 2649: Unknown exception for Voucher creation
    3.  If any response is NOT received  
        **Note:** Indicates System Exception
        1.  Return error 8105: TRANSPORT_ERROR, 8108: COMMUNICATION_ERROR, as applicable

3.  Otherwise
    1.  Refill Management component retrieves the transaction routing details (Endpoint URL) for the destination instance of OCS (Mediation Zone). Refer [Routing – Outbound – Service Component to route](../../appendices/Appendix G.md#routing-outbound-service-component-to-route) for details.
    2.  Refill Management component translates the request from CMM(Reliance SID) to the proprietary message model of OCS and invokes chargeableItemCharge operation of ChargeableItemCharging service. OCS performs the recharge and returns the response (previous balance, new balance and validity date).  
        **Note:** For GST following data elements are required
        -  PRODUCT_STATE: If NOT available, set to same as MERCHANT_STATE (applicable for FRC Scenario)
        -  MERCHANT_STATE

        **Note:** For existing Prime Customer, if another Plan Offering is received with Prime Plan Offering (or included in Wrapper Plan Offering),
		
        -  For Prepaid Product: OCS do not apply Prime instead converts Plan Offering amount as monetary balance at Account. In such scenario an indicator is returned in response to denote "Duplicate Prime Pass".
        -  For Postpaid Product: OCS do not process the Plan Offering and returns error.

        **Note:** For all successful replenishment requests, OCS provides computed.DuplicatePrimePass field; For "Duplicate Prime Pass" scenario the value returned as "true" otherwise value returned as "false" (default – Prime Plan Offering doesn't exists or Prime applied, if exists).

        **Note:** If monetary topup was provided as part of the balance replelnishment, for reversal, OCS attempts to recover the monetary balance. If OCS is NOT able to recover the monetary balance provided as part of the balance replenishment transaction, then the complete amount is not returned. Adjusted amount is returned for processing fees is NOT reversed / refunded; also GST is calculated in proportion to the recoverable amount. For details on calculation of refund amount, refer to [Recharge Reversal – Refund Rules](../../appendices/Appendix H.md#recharge-reversal-refund-rules).

        **Note:** For recharge reversal, OCS ensures replay is not processed again for TOPUP on resubmission of the transaction. Simulates the behaviour of recharge for TOPUP (including monetary plan offering exists in Wrapper) as well. Plan Offering Id, Original Balance Replenishment ORN, Original Balance Replenishment Transaction Id, Gross, Net, Tax and Processing Fees are persisted to support reversal. "Not authorized - Message for NoAccess is : EPNV|PLAN NOT VALID FOR REVERSAL" error code is returned for TOPUP reversal as well to indicate reversal is already processed.

        In case of Wrapper, OCS processes "n" child plan offering separately and returns cumulative values in the response. OCS returns failure if any of the Child Plan Offering reversal is not processed; rollbacks the child Plan Offering(s) for which reversal is performed. Error may be occurred due to Wrong ORN or Plan Offering expired or already reversal is processed etc. If replayed, re-executes the reversal again for all the Child Plan Offering(s) and provides the cumulative response.

        **Note:**  
		
        -  If Negotiated Plan Rental Amount is received in request (mandatory for PlanOffering having businessInteractionLevel = 5: Rate Card Plan),  
             *  OCS stores the Negotiated Plan Rental Amount and uses the same to generate rental BITS for events including new order, suspend, resume, cease and renewal. 
		-  Otherwise 
		     * OCS uses the Rental Amount retrieved from local copy of Product Catalog to generate rental BITS

        **Note:** OCS processes the Wraper Plan Offering (subtype = 18: Wraper) and Action = ADD synchronously and emits the notifications for each of the constituent Plan Offering  
		/notification/id = refill_Orig,  
		/notification/message = refillResponse_Orig

        **Note:**  

        -  if response from OCS is success (identified by /status = 'return')
            *  if bEnableWraper = Y and transaction is for a Wraper Plan Offering and Action = ADD (identified by /result/notification[message = 'refillResponse_Orig'] exists)
                -  bEnableWraper is local configuration to enable processing of Wraper PlanOffering
                    -  If local configuration bEnableWraper = N or local configuration does NOT exists (default), disable processing of Wraper PlanOffering
                    -  If local configuration bEnableWraper = Y, enable processing of Wraper PlanOffering
                -  indicates successful execution of Plan Offering in OCS with subtype = 18: WRAPER and Action = ADD
                -  iterate thru the list of notification for each contained PlanOffering; /result/notification[message = 'refillResponse_Orig']
                    -  if /notification/field[name = 'computed.PlanOfferType'] IN [configurable list of Primary PlanOfferingType]
                    -  configurable list of Primary PlanOfferingType = ['CONNECTIVITY + CONTENT/OTT RECHARGE']
                        -  indicates one of the contained Plan Offering has type = CONNECTIVITY + CONTENT/OTT RECHARGE
                        -  lsStackQueueFmPlanType = /notification/field[name = 'computed.Status']/value
                        -  lsTimeValFmPlanType = /notification/field[name = 'computed.TimeValue']/value
                        -  lsUoMFmPlanType = /notification/field[name = 'computed.UnitOfMeasure']/value
                        -  exit loop
                    -  if /notification/field[name = 'computed.PlanOfferType'] IN [configurable list of Secondary PlanOfferingType] and /notification/field[name = 'computed.PLAN_PACK'] <= 0
                    -  configurable list of Secondary PlanOfferingType = ['CONNECTIVITY RECHARGE']
                        -  determine the count of contained Plan Offering with type = CONNECTIVITY RECHARGE and subsubType = PLAN
                        -  liPlanCount = liPlanCount++
                        -  lsStackQueueFmPlanSubSubType = /notification/field[name = 'computed.Status']/value
                        -  lsTimeValFmPlanSubSubType = /notification/field[name = 'computed.TimeValue']/value
                        -  lsUoMFmPlanSubSubType = /notification/field[name = 'computed.UnitOfMeasure']/value
                -  if value is set for lsStackQueueFmPlanType; indicates one of the contained Plan Offering has type = CONNECTIVITY + CONTENT/OTT RECHARGE
                    -  specify /Characteristics/Characteristic[Name = 'PlanStatus']/Value = <Value of lsStackQueueFmPlanType\>
                    -  specify /Characteristics/Characteristic[Name = 'VALIDITY_DAYS']/Value = <Value of lsTimeValFmPlanType\>
                    -  specify /Characteristics/Characteristic[Name = 'UNIT']/Value = <Value of lsUoMFmPlanType\>
                -  Else if liPlanCount = 1; indicates only 1 contained Plan Offering with type = CONNECTIVITY RECHARGE and subsubType = PLAN
                    -  specify /Characteristics/Characteristic[Name = 'PlanStatus']/Value = <Value of lsStackQueueFmPlanSubSubType\>
                    -  specify /Characteristics/Characteristic[Name = 'VALIDITY_DAYS']/Value = <Value of lsTimeValFmPlanSubSubType\>
                    -  specify /Characteristics/Characteristic[Name = 'UNIT']/Value = <Value of lsUoMFmPlanSubSubType\>
                -  Otherwise
                    -  continue as-is
                    -  specify /Characteristics/Characteristic[Name = 'PlanStatus']/Value = <from /notification[message = 'refillResponse']/field[name = 'computed.Status']/numberValue\>
            *  Otherwise
                -  continue as-is
                -  specify /Characteristics/Characteristic[Name = 'PlanStatus']/Value = <from /notification[message = 'refillResponse']/field[name = 'computed.Status']/numberValue\>

    3.  If the response received from OCS is success (identified by chargeableItemChargeResponse/status="return") and ((Plan Offering Type = 7:Connectivity + Content/OTT Recharge or Plan Offering Type = 18: Connectivity+Content/OTT AddOn) or (Action = 3: Remove and (Plan Offering Type = 7:Connectivity + Content/OTT Recharge or Plan Offering Type = 8: CONNECTIVITY + CONTENT/OTT STARTUP)) or (Action = 08: BPC_BCC_DAY and (Plan Offering Type = 17: CONNECTIVITY + CONTENT/OTT POSTPAID))),
        1.  Refill Management component invokes [submitDigitalServiceOrder](../../fulfillment/Process Digital Service Order/Digital Service Order Life Cycle Management.md#submitdigitalserviceorder) operation of [Digital Service Order Life Cycle Management](../../fulfillment/Process Digital Service Order/Digital Service Order Life Cycle Management.md) service to submit a request to activate / deactivate the digital service(s) by persisting the request into a messaging queue.  
            **Note:** During Order fulfillment, the invocation of submitDigitalServiceOrder is performed from OE.  
            **Note:** For Bill Plan Change, there is no invocation for submitDigitalServiceOrder; request is submitted to Subscription Engine via. an offline batch process executed on bill cycle date.  
            **Note:** For recharge reversal, Subscription Engine de-provisions the Digital Service(s).  
            **Note:** For Bill Plan and Bill Cycle Change (identified by action = 08: BPC_BCC_DAY), additional elements are provided to Digital Service Order for Bill Plan and Bill Cycle Change
            -  Plan Effective Date (/planOffering/characteristics[name = 'EFFECTIVE_DATE']/value = <Value received from OCS in rechargeAccount response; /lineItem/characteristics[name='EFFECTIVE_DATE']/value\>)
            -  Next Bill Cycle Date (/billingDetails/nextBillCycleDate = <Value received from OCS in rechargeAccount response; /lineItem/billingDetails/nextBillCycleDate\>)

            **Note:** Request received for Bill Plan and Bill Cycle Change overrides any pending Bill Plan and Bill Cycle Change request.  
			Subscription Engine processes the Bill Plan and Bill Cycle Change request at "Effective Date" timestamp to perform Bill Plan Change and activate the Plan Offering

    4.  If the response received from OCS is success (identified by chargeableItemChargeResponse/status="return") and Feature – IR or Feature – ICR is included in the Plan Offering (identified by /notification[id = 'refillfeature']/field[name = 'computed.FeatureCode' and (stringValue = 'F30003' or stringValue = 'F50001')] exists) and (Plan Offering Type = 1: Connectivity Recharge or 7: Connectivity + Content/OTT Recharge or 16: Connectivity AddOn or 18: Connectivity+Content/OTT AddOn),
        1.  Refill Management component persists the message into the messaging queue (Protocol / Transport = XML/JMS), which is consumed by Process Service Feature to process the Add feature – IR or Add Feature – ICR.  
            **Note:** The invocation to provision Feature – IR [F30003], ICR [F50001] is applicable for Add Add-On Pack [For Post-paid] and Balance Replenishment [For Pre-paid]; NOT applicable for New Order.

    5.  If the response received from OCS is success (identified by chargeableItemChargeResponse/status="return"),
        1.  Refill Management component persists the message to a messaging queue to be consumed by Campaign Fulfillment Platform.  
            **Note:** Campaign Fulfillment Platform updates Prime Segment when Prime Plan Offering exists (identified by Plan Offering with subtype = 17: MembershipPass) and Prime Pass is applied or removed (for recharge reversal) in OCS (identified by /Characteristics/Characteristic[Name='DUPLICATE_PRIME_PASS']/Value != true).  
            **Note:** For "Duplicate Prime Pass" scenario, Campaign Fulfillment Platform does not update the Prime Segment validity.  
            **Note:** Campaign Fulfillment Platforms uses the event to also submit the request for feedback survey for Balance Replenishment (for Volte-VVM-Data); refer to section Feedback Survey for Jio Stores for details.  
            **Note:** Messages for Campaign Fulfillment Platform are also delivered to another messaging queue for [Coupon Refill Management](#coupon-refill-management) ==and another messaging queue for DigitalApi Streamer== (Messaging Bridge is configured between ==~~two~~ three== queues).

    6.  The response received from OCS is translated back to the Reliance SID and returned back to consumer.  
        **Note:** OCS cannot initiate transactions hence Mediation Zone is required to proxy the recharge transactions for policy updates to PCRF and AAA for network related policy updates; Refer to OCS Interfaces for details.


## receiveRechargeNotification

| Service Characteristics | Values |
| :--- | :--- |
| **Service Name** | Refill Management |
| **Operation Name** | receiveRechargeNotification |
| **Provider** | <ul style="list-style-type: disc;"><li>OCS</li><ul style="list-style-type: circle;padding-left: 15px;"><li>SAP CC, JRCS (via. Mediation Zone)</li></ul><li>SAP HANA (Routing DB) via. Routing Data Inquiry:getRoutingDetails</li><li>Notification Engine via. Customer Notification:handleNotification</li><li>EDIF via. Product Offering Inquiry:findPlanOffering, Product Offering Inquiry:queryPlanOffering</li><li>SAP CRM via. Customer Interaction Maintenance:logCustomerInteraction</li></ul> |
| **Consumer** | <ul style="list-style-type: disc;"><li>MyJio</li><li>Self Care</li><li>JioAssist</li><li>IVR</li><li>DigitalApi Platform</li><ul style="list-style-type: circle;padding-left: 15px;"><li>Customer Self Management</li></ul></ul> |
| **Data Format** | Reliance SID |
| **Protocol / Transport** | <ul style="list-style-type: disc;"><li>XML/JMS</li><ul style="list-style-type: circle;padding-left: 15px;"><li>IVR</li></ul><li>JSON/HTTP</li><ul style="list-style-type: circle;padding-left: 15px;"><li>MyJio</li><li>Self Care</li><li>JioAssist</li></ul></ul> |
| **Mediation Pattern** | Service Selector / Service Translator |
| **Interaction Type** | Synchronous Update Request with Acknowledgment (overall Asynchronous) |

### Interaction Diagram

``` mermaid
sequenceDiagram
  autonumber
  participant JA as JioAssist
  participant DAPI_RM_PROXY as DigitalApi (Refill Management Proxy)
  participant MSG_RM as Messaging (RECEIVERECHARGENOTIFICATION.IN.Queue)
  participant DAPI_RM as DigitalApi (Refill Management)
  participant DAPI_POI as DigitalApi (Product Offering Inquiry)
  participant DAPI_IM as DigitalApi (Identifier Management)
  participant MZ_SMT as MZ (SubscriberMappingTableManagement)
  participant MZ_CIC as MZ (ChargeableItemCharging)
  participant MSG_CIM as Messaging (LOGCUSTOMERINTERACTION.IN.Queue)
  participant MSG_CN as Messaging (HANDLENOTIFICATION.IN.Queue)

  opt On Startup
    DAPI_RM->>+DAPI_POI: findPlanOffering
    DAPI_POI-->>-DAPI_RM: findPlanOffering
	DAPI_RM->>DAPI_RM: cachePlanOffering
  end
  
  JA->>+DAPI_RM_PROXY: receiveRechargeNotification
  DAPI_RM_PROXY->>DAPI_RM_PROXY: performValidations
  DAPI_RM_PROXY->>MSG_RM: PUT
  DAPI_RM_PROXY-->>-JA: receiveRechargeNotification
  
  DAPI_RM->>MSG_RM: GET
  opt /header/rechargeRefNo not available
    DAPI_RM->>+DAPI_IM: getTransactionRefNumber
	DAPI_IM-->>-DAPI_RM: getTransactionRefNumber
  end
  
  alt consentType = EOCNConsent
    Note over DAPI_RM: Routing – Outbound – Service Provider with distributed deployment
	DAPI_RM->>+MZ_SMT: mappingTableRowMaintain
    MZ_SMT-->>-DAPI_RM: mappingTableRowMaintain
  else Otherwise
    Note over DAPI_RM: Routing – Outbound – Service Provider with distributed deployment
	DAPI_RM->>+MZ_CIC: chargeableItemCharge
    MZ_CIC-->>-DAPI_RM: chargeableItemCharge
  end
  
  alt Success 
    opt /consentType = IRDATAGLOBAL
      DAPI_RM->>MSG_CIM: PUT
      Note over MSG_CIM: Customer Interaction Maintenance - logCustomerInteraction
    end
   
    opt /consentType = AutoRenewConsent
      DAPI_RM->>DAPI_RM: determinePlanOfferingFromCache
	  opt Plan Offering NOT retrieved
        DAPI_RM->>+DAPI_POI: queryPlanOffering
        DAPI_POI-->>-DAPI_RM: queryPlanOffering
		DAPI_RM->>DAPI_RM: cachePlanOffering
      end
    end
    
	DAPI_RM->>MSG_CN: PUT
    Note over MSG_CN: Customer Notification – handleNotification
  else Failure
    opt Business exception
      DAPI_RM->>MSG_CN: PUT
      Note over MSG_CN: Customer Notification – handleNotification
    end	
  end
```

Following is a textual walk-through of the Refill Management – receiveRechargeNotification operation.

1.  On Startup,
    1.  Refill Management component invokes the [findPlanOffering](../../catalog/Manage Product Offering/Product Offering Inquiry.md#findplanoffering) operation of [Product Offering Inquiry](../../catalog/Manage Product Offering/Product Offering Inquiry.md) service to fetch the Plan Offerings.  
        **Note:** specify /filterCriterias[name= 'PLANOFFER]/value = <PLANOFFER\>, /paging/pageSize = <1000\>, /paging/offset = <1\>
    2.  Refill Management component caches the data elements of the Plan Offering required for sending notifications.

2.  Service Consumer invokes receiveRechargeNotification operation of Refill Management service to notify renewal of the recharge plan or update the Data Usage Consent or SMS Info Consent or EOCN Consent or Enable / Disable IR Data Usage from Global Tariff.

3.  Refill Management Proxy component performs the basic semantic validations such as compliance of the message with structure including the mandatory / optional elements. If the validations fail, an error message / fault is returned to the invoking component.

4.  Refill Management Proxy component persists the message into a messaging queue.

5.  The acknowledgement message including the Recharge Notification Reference Number is then returned to the invoking component.

6.  Refill Management component retrieves the message from the messaging queue.

7.  If the Recharge Notification Reference Number (identified by /header/rechargeRefNo) is not available in the request message
    1.  Refill Management component invokes [getTransactionRefNumber](../../common/Manage Identifiers/Identifier Management.md#gettransactionrefnumber) operation of [Identifier Management](../../common/Manage Identifiers/Identifier Management.md) service to generate and fetch a Recharge Notification Reference Number.  
        **Note:** specify transactionType = "RN" to generate a Recharge Notification Reference Number.
    2.  Refill Management component updates the request message with the Recharge Notification Reference Number.

8.  If /consentType = EOCNConsent
    1.  Refill Management component retrieves the transaction routing details (Endpoint URL) for the destination instance of OCS. Refer [Routing – Outbound – Service Component to route](../../appendices/Appendix G.md#routing-outbound-service-component-to-route) for details.
    2.  Refill Management component translates the request from CMM (Reliance SID) to the proprietary format of OCS and invokes mappingTableRowMaintain operation of SubscriberMappingTableManagement service. OCS updates the EOCN Consent and returns the response.

9.  Otherwise
    1.  Refill Management component retrieves the transaction routing details (Endpoint URL) for the destination instance of OCS. Refer [Routing – Outbound – Service Component to route](../../appendices/Appendix G.md#routing-outbound-service-component-to-route) for details.
    2.  Refill Management component translates the request from CMM (Reliance SID) to the proprietary format of OCS and invokes chargeableItemCharge operation of ChargeableItemCharging service. OCS updates the renewal status of the recharge plan or update the Data Usage Consent or SMS Info Consent and returns the response.

10.  If the Success response is received
     1.  If /consentType = 'IRDATAGLOBAL'
         1.  Refill Management component invokes [logCustomerInteraction](../../inventory/Manage Customer Interaction/Customer Interaction Maintenance.md#logcustomerinteraction) operation of [Customer Interaction Maintenance](../../inventory/Manage Customer Interaction/Customer Interaction Maintenance.md) service by persisting a message to the messaging queue to log a customer interaction.  
             **Note:** Following values are used to log an interaction for:  
             /customerInquiry/referenceNumber = </header/rechargeRefNo\>,  
             /customerInquiry/category = <CA_2798: Auto tagging\>,  
             /customerInquiry/subCategory = <CB_2345: IR data usage at PayGo\>,  
             /customerInquiry/subSubCategory = <If /header/action = 1: Positive Consent, specify CB_2347: IR data usage at PayGo enabled; Otherwise, specify CB_2346: IR data usage at PayGo disabled\>,  
             /customerInquiry/title = specify Constant "IR data usage at PayGo",  
             /customerInquiry/description (trim to 132 char) = specify "IR Data Usage at PayGo " + <If /header/action = 1, specify "enabled"; otherwise, specify "disabled"\>  

             **Note:** specify jioroute in the jms message property which is as retrieved from http header.

     2.  If /consentType = 'AutoRenewConsent'
         1.  Refill Management component determines the details of Plan Offering from cache initiated on-startup for the received planOffering (/planID)
         2.  If Plan Offering is NOT retrieved from cached Plan Offering(s),
             -  Refill Management component invokes [queryPlanOffering](../../catalog/Manage Product Offering/Product Offering Inquiry.md#queryplanoffering) operation of [Product Offering Inquiry](../../catalog/Manage Product Offering/Product Offering Inquiry.md) service to retrieve plan offering details, for sending notification.  
               **Note:** specify /planOffering/planID = </planID\>, /filterCriterias[name= 'PLANSPECIFICATION']/value = <PLANSPECIFICATION\>
             -  Refill Management component updates the cache with the Plan Offering details.

     3.  Refill Management component invokes [handleNotification](../../common/Customer Communication/Customer Notification.md#handlenotification) operation of [Customer Notification](../../common/Customer Communication/Customer Notification.md) service to submit a request for sending transaction confirmation notification to the customer.  
         **Note:** Refer to [Consent Notifications](#consent-notifications) for determining Notification Template Id.  
         **Note:** specify  
         /templateID = <determined template id\>,  
         /referenceID = </header/rechargeRefNo\>,  
         /payloadMessage/serviceId = </lineItem/accounts/commonDataList/products/commonDataList/serviceID\>,  
         /payloadMessage/attributes/commonDataList[name = 'ACTION']/value = </header/action\>,  
         /payloadMessage/attributes/commonDataList[name = 'CONSENT_TYPE']/value = </consentType\>,  
         /payloadMessage/attributes/commonDataList[name = 'MSISDN']/value = </lineItem/accounts/commonDataList/products/commonDataList/serviceID\>,  
         /payloadMessage/attributes/commonDataList[name = 'REFERENCE_NUMBER']/value = </header/rechargeRefNo\>,  
         /payloadMessage/attributes/commonDataList[name = 'PLAN_NAME']/value = <determined Plan Offering Name\>,  
         /payloadMessage/attributes/commonDataList[name = 'PLAN_OFFER_DESCRIPTION']/value = <determined Plan Offering Description\>,  

11.  Otherwise (Failure response)
     1.  Refill Management component determines the action to be performed for the specific error code.
     2.  In case of business exception, Refill Management component invokes [handleNotification](../../common/Customer Communication/Customer Notification.md#handlenotification) operation of [Customer Notification](../../common/Customer Communication/Customer Notification.md) service to submit a request for sending failure notification to the customer.  
         **Note:** specify  
         /templateID = <73400\>,  
         /referenceID = </header/rechargeRefNo\>,  
         /payloadMessage/serviceId = </lineItem/accounts/commonDataList/products/commonDataList/serviceID\>,  
         /payloadMessage/attributes/commonDataList[name = 'ACTION']/value = </header/action\>,  
         /payloadMessage/attributes/commonDataList[name = 'CONSENT_TYPE']/value = </consentType\>,  
         /payloadMessage/attributes/commonDataList[name = 'MSISDN']/value = </lineItem/accounts/commonDataList/products/commonDataList/serviceID\>  

     **Note:** In an event of system exception, DigitalApi Platform retries the message processing as per the configured policies.

### Consent Notifications

| Scenario | Billing Type /billingType | consentType /header/action | Notification Id |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| AutoRenewConsent – Positive | 1: Prepaid | 1: Positive | 61200 |
| AutoRenewConsent – Positive | 2: Postpaid | 1: Positive | 61200 |
| AutoRenewConsent – Negative | 1: Prepaid | 0: Negative | 61400 |
| AutoRenewConsent – Negative | 2: Postpaid | 0: Negative | 105200 |
| BasePlanConsent – Positive | 1: Prepaid | 1: Positive | 73201 |
| BasePlanConsent – Positive | 2: Postpaid | 1: Positive | 105000 |
| BasePlanConsent – Negative | 1: Prepaid | 0: Negative | 73202 |
| BasePlanConsent – Negative | 2: Postpaid | 0: Negative | 105200 |
| SMSInfoConsent – Positive | 1: Prepaid | 1: Positive | 73204 |
| SMSInfoConsent – Positive | 2: Postpaid | 1: Positive | 73204 |
| SMSInfoConsent – Negative | 1: Prepaid | 0: Negative | 73203 |
| SMSInfoConsent – Negative | 2: Postpaid | 0: Negative | 73203 |
| EOCNConsent – Positive | 1: Prepaid | 1: Positive | 408946 |
| EOCNConsent – Positive | 2: Postpaid | 1: Positive | 408946 |
| EOCNConsent – Negative | 1: Prepaid | 0: Negative | 408945 |
| EOCNConsent – Negative | 2: Postpaid | 0: Negative | 408945 |
| IRDATAGLOBAL – Positive | 2: Postpaid | 1: Positive | 413603 |
| IRDATAGLOBAL – Negative | 2: Postpaid | 0: Negative | 413604 |



## Coupon Refill Management

### rechargeAccount

| Service Characteristics | Values |
| :--- | :--- |
| **Service Name** | Coupon Refill Management |
| **Operation Name** | rechargeAccount |
| **Message Provider** | <ul style="list-style-type: disc;"><li>DigitalApi Platform</li><ul style="list-style-type: circle;padding-left: 15px;"><li>Refill Management:rechargeAccount</li></ul></ul> |
| **Message Consumer** | <ul style="list-style-type: disc;"><li>Jio Coupon</li></ul> |
| **Data Format** | Reliance SID |
| **Protocol / Transport** | JSON/JMS |
| **Mediation Pattern** | Message Translator |
| **Interaction Type** | One-way assured delivery |

#### Interaction Diagram

``` mermaid
sequenceDiagram
  autonumber
  participant DAPI_RM as DigitalApi (Refill Management)
  participant MSG_JCPN as Messaging (JCPN.BRG.CFP.RECHARGEACCOUNT.IN.Queue)
  participant DAPI_CRM as DigitalApi (Coupon Refill Management)
  participant MSG_JCPN_OUT as Messaging (JCPN.RECHARGEACCOUNT.OUT.Queue)

  DAPI_RM->>MSG_JCPN: PUT
  DAPI_CRM->>MSG_JCPN: GET
  opt message is for Balance Replenishment transactions for VoLTE NOT initiated from Campaign Fulfillment Platform
    DAPI_CRM->>MSG_JCPN_OUT: PUT
  end
```

Following is a textual walk-through of the Coupon Refill Management – rechargeAccount operation.

1.  Coupon Refill Management component (belonging to Service Translator layer – Jio Coupon) consumes the message from the messaging queue.  
    **Note:** Messages for Campaign Fulfillment Platform (from [Refill Management](#):[rechargeAccount](#rechargeaccount)) are also delivered to another messaging queue for [Coupon Refill Management](#coupon-refill-management) (Messaging Bridge is configured between two queues).

2.  If message is for Balance Replenishment transactions for VoLTE NOT initiated from Campaign Fulfillment Platform (identified by (/header/action does NOT exists or /header/action IN ['' ,'01']) and  
    /header/channelID NOT IN [Configurable list of channel] and  
	/lineItem/planOfferingType IN [Configurable list of Plan Offering Type] and  
	list of /lineItem/accounts/commonDataList/products/commonDataList/services/commonDataList/serviceType must have following value [Z0002: Mobile Data])

    **Note:** Configurable list of channel = [15: Campaign Fulfillment Platform]

    **Note:** Configurable list of Plan Offering Type = [1: CONNECTIVITY RECHARGE, 2: CONNECTIVITY STARTUP, 7: CONNECTIVITY + CONTENT/OTT RECHARGE, 8: CONNECTIVITY + CONTENT/OTT STARTUP, 13: TOPUP, 25: NONMONETARY TOPUP, 26: NONMONETARY TOPUP-INHERITING VALIDITY ONLY]

    1.  Coupon Refill Management component translates the message from CMM (Reliance SID) to the message model of Jio Coupon and persists the messages to a messaging queue to be consumed by Jio Coupon and generate applicable coupons.  
        **Note:** Mesaging queue for Jio Coupon is configured on Solace



## **Additional details**
[Refer to mapping sheet for list of data elements](https://jio.ril.com/sites/systems/design/Shared%20Documents/04.%20E2E%20Architecture%20and%20Solutions/02.%20Macro%20Design%20Documents/Functional%20Mappings/Refill%20Management.xls?Web=1)  
[Refer to Developer Portal for specifications](https://digitalapi.developers.jio.com/api/638)  
[Refer to Developer Portal for specifications](https://digitalapi.developers.jio.com/api/1380)  

### Change log
**2025-12-21** – Feature #2107506: Customer Event Platform - Recharge
