# Refill Preference Management

## maintainRefillPreference

| Service Characteristics | Values |
| :--- | :--- |
| **Service Name** | Refill Preference Management |
| **Operation Name** | maintainRefillPreference |
| **Provider** | <ul style="list-style-type: disc;"><li>SAP CRM</li><li>SAP HANA (Routing DB) via. Routing Data Inquiry:getRoutingDetails</li><li>Notification Engine via. Customer Notification:handleNotification</li></ul> |
| **Consumer** | <ul style="list-style-type: disc;"><li>MyJio</li><li>Self Care</li><li>Self Care – Enterprise</li><li>Orchestration Engine (OE)</li><ul style="list-style-type: circle;padding-left: 15px;"><li>Process Mandate Cancellation</li><li>Process AutoRefill</li></ul><li>DigitalApi Platform</li><ul style="list-style-type: circle;padding-left: 15px;"><li>Balance Replenishment:replenishBalanceBySelfService</li></ul></ul> |
| **Data Format** | Reliance SID |
| **Protocol / Transport** | <ul style="list-style-type: disc;"><li>SOAP/HTTP</li><ul style="list-style-type: circle;padding-left: 15px;"><li>MyJio</li><li>Self Care</li></ul><li>JSON/HTTP</li><ul style="list-style-type: circle;padding-left: 15px;"><li>Self Care – Enterprise</li><li>Orchestration Engine (OE)</li><ul style="list-style-type: square;padding-left: 15px;"><li>Process Mandate Cancellation</li><li>Process AutoRefill</li></ul></ul><li>XML/JMS</li><li>JSON/JMS</li><ul style="list-style-type: circle;padding-left: 15px;"><li>DigitalApi Platform</li></ul></ul> |
| **Mediation Pattern** | Service Translator |
| **Interaction Type** | Synchronous Update Request with Acknowledgment (overall Asynchronous) |

### Interaction Diagram

``` mermaid
sequenceDiagram
  autonumber
  participant MYJIO as MyJio
  participant DAPI_RPM_PROXY as DigitalApi (Refill Preference Management Proxy)
  participant MSG_RPM as Messaging MAINTAINREFILLPREFERENCE.IN.Queue)
  participant DAPI_RPM as DigitalApi (Refill Preference Management)
  participant CRM_REFILL as SAP CRM (ZCRM_FG_REFILL)
  participant MSG_RTQ_RPM as Messaging (REPLYTOQUEUE.MAINTAINREFILLPREFERENCE.OUT.Queue)

  MYJIO->>+DAPI_RPM_PROXY: maintainRefillPreference
  DAPI_RPM_PROXY->>DAPI_RPM_PROXY: performValidations
  DAPI_RPM_PROXY->>MSG_RPM: PUT
  DAPI_RPM_PROXY-->>-MYJIO: maintainRefillPreference (Acknowledgment)
  
  DAPI_RPM->>MSG_RPM: GET
  Note over DAPI_RPM: Routing – Outbound – Service Provider with distributed deployment
  DAPI_RPM->>+CRM_REFILL: ZCRM_REFILL_PREF_MAINTAIN
  CRM_REFILL-->>-DAPI_RPM: ZCRM_REFILL_PREF_MAINTAIN
  
  opt error returned
    DAPI_RPM->>DAPI_RPM: notifyOn
  end

  opt /refillPreference/characteristics[name = 'CALLBACK_REF_NOTIFY_URL']/value exists
    DAPI_RPM->>MSG_RTQ_RPM: PUT
  end
```

Following is a textual walk-through of the approach to implement Refill Preference Management:maintainRefillPreference operation.

1.  The consumer application (e.g. Self Care) invokes maintainRefillPreference operation of Refill Preference Management service to add, modify or delete refill preferences.

2.  Refill Preference Management Proxy component performs the basic semantic validations such as compliance of Refill Preference message with structure including the mandatory / optional elements.

3.  Refill Preference Management Proxy component puts the Refill Preference message to a messaging queue for processing.  
    **Note:** Refill Preference Management Proxy component also specifies the value of Characteristic[Name = "ROUTING_ZONE"] as the header property – jioroute; also remove the Characteristic[Name="ROUTING_ZONE"] while persisting the message to the messaging queue.

4.  An acknowledgment (including the Refill Preference Reference Number) is then returned to the invoking component about successfully receiving the refill preference (i.e. refill preference registration, modification or deregistration) request.

5.  Refill Preference Management component consumes the message from the messaging queue.

6.  Refill Preference Management component retrieves the transaction routing details (Endpoint URL) for the destination instance of SAP CRM. Refer [Routing – Outbound – Service Component to route](../../appendices/Appendix G.md#routing-outbound-service-component-to-route) for details.

7.  Refill Preference Management component translates the message from CMM (Reliance SID) to the proprietary message model of SAP and invokes the SAP RFC ZCRM_REFILL_PREF_MAINTAIN to register, modify or deregister the refill preference.  
    **Note:** Once the registration or modification or deregistration of refill preference is successful, SAP CRM invokes notifyRefillPreference for processing and updating the EDIF to register, modify or deregister the refill preference.

8.  If an error is returned (identified by /ET_MESSAGE/item/TYPE = 'E' and /EV_RESPONSE/RESULT_CODE = '2') notifyOn i.e. log the request and error message in CLE, continue processing.  
    **Note:** Following combination for all Refill Preference is unique: Customer Id and Status [P: Pending, A: Approved]  
    **Note:** Multiple Refill Preference must not exist with same status = P: Pending or A: Approved; Multiple Refill Preference may exist one each with status = P: Pending and A: Approved  
    **Note:** Refill Preference with Action = D: Deregister or Status = R: Rejected, are removed i.e. VALID_TO date is specified in SAP CRM.  
	==if VALID_TO DateTime for Refill Preference Reference Number < System DateTime, SAP CRM does NOT process the request to De-register the Refill Preference, which is already de-registered, and returns success.==  
	    ==SAP CRM does NOT publishes IDOC (ZCRMXIF_REFILL_PREF_IDOC) or notifies OCS to remove AutoPay detail.== 
		
	==Applicable for scenarios – Replay for message with action = D: Deregister or deferred deregister of Refill Preference arising from Payment Failure when Customer has already de-register the Refill Preference.==  
    **Note:** SAP CRM maintains AutoRefill Preference for Bill payment at both locations - Refill Preference and Postpaid Account.  
    **Note:** When de-registration of AutoRefill Preference for Bill Payment (identified by /refillReference/PlanOffering/id does not exists) is customer initiated, SAP CRM removes the Refill Preference and nullifies the "Auto Payment" details from the Billing Account.  
    **Note:** However when de-registration is initiated from Cease (Cease and MIGRATE-CEASE scenario) of the Product, SAP CRM while removes the Refill Preference, does not remove "Auto Payment" details from Billing Account (required for Customer's final bill settlement).  
    **Note:** SAP CRM rejects the preapproved mandate preference (identified by Action = R: Register Refill Preference, Status = A: Approved and Characteristic[Name="PREAPPROVED_MANDATE"] exists) if a preference exists for same customer with Status = P: Pending.  
    **Note:** For preapproved mandate preference (Identified by Action = R: Register Refill Preference, Status = A: Approved and Characteristic[Name = "PREAPPROVED_MANDATE"] exists)
    -  If duplicate preference is received (with same Refill Preference Reference Number)
        -  SAP CRM updates the Refill Preference
    -  Else If a preference exists for same customer with Status = P: Pending
        -  SAP CRM rejects the Registration request,
    -  Otherwise,
        -  SAP CRM swaps i.e. De-registers existing Approved Refill Preference, if any and registers the specified Refill Preference

9.  If /refillPreference/characteristics[name = 'CALLBACK_REF_NOTIFY_URL']/value exists
    1.  Refill Preference Management component persists the response message to the ReplyToQueue identified from the value.

**Note:** In an event of system exception, DigitalApi Platform retries the message processing as per the configured policies.


## **Additional details**
[Refer to mapping sheet for list of data elements](https://jio.ril.com/sites/systems/design/Shared%20Documents/04.%20E2E%20Architecture%20and%20Solutions/02.%20Macro%20Design%20Documents/Functional%20Mappings/RefillPreferenceManagement.xls?Web=1)  
[Refer to Developer Portal for specifications](https://digitalapi.developers.jio.com/api/444)

### Change log  
**2026-02-16** - Feature #2643155: Improve the processing for Deregister of Refill Preference
